What is my true purpose in life?

life has a purpose
a life without purpose is like a bud that never blossoms

to achieve huge success in any undertaling i take up

to be world famous

to be a master in any subject matter I am curious about

* to leave things in a better shape than what i found them originally

to create something that makes a hard thing easier for people

to be a part of the team that creates something that makes a hard thing easier for people

to live all moments in my life knowing that i am moving forward towards my target

* i lived my life with intensity and infused with purpose.  giving joy to people in my presence, infusing them with enthusiasm to overcome roadblocks

i fixed one major problem in the world

* i created a big chunk of the road into the future, a future which had happy people, people  who were connected with each other, where there was friendship and joy.  a world where machines were more intelligent than what they are today and they helped in making world an easier place to live in

 i mentored people who created the road for the future

 i created a "wave of the future", a revolution



to define an ideal and achieve it
to define an ideal company and achieve it
to define an ideal state of being and achieve it

* ideal state of being - loving, creating, inventing the future, achiveing, bringing new things to life, joyful (joy come from doing the things listed earlier), financial abundance

invent the future
make  things that are useful for others

to do things that strech me and challenge me physically, mentally and emotionally. which make full use of my potential

to live the life as a superior man, a better man than others in the world








































































Stephen, just for fun, imagine you are standing at the pearly gates (or whatever your version of that is) and you are asked, "What difference did you make during your life?" You only have one or two short sentences to answer, because there's a long line behind you and The Authority is glancing at his watch a lot.

What would like to be able to report?

SS, tell me, as if you were talking with me at a cocktail party. What difference would you have liked to make during your life, that you can look back on when you're taking your last breath? Maybe it will sound something like:

"During my life I generated (quality or condition) for myself and for others. Generating that quality made me feel (feeling)."

I do believe there is an underlying flow to life at times, but I see myself as a co-creator in that flow. I can ride the flow when it’s headed where I want to go, or I can get off and blaze my own trail when necessary.I do believe there is an underlying flow to life at times, but I see myself as a co-creator in that flow. I can ride the flow when it’s headed where I want to go, or I can get off and blaze my own trail when necessary.
