This is a simple yellow daal recipe that I learnt from my Significant
Other (SO).  You can have this daal with chapati, as it is quite thick
in consistency.  This recipe is talored towards bachelors who *have* to
coo, rather than chefs.

Ingredients (to serve 2 people)
 - 1/3 cup of yellow daal (also called moong daal)
 - 2/3 cup of water
 - 1 tsp of salt
 - 1 tsp of turmeric
 - 1/2 tsp of red chilli powder
 - 1 tsp of garam masala powder
 - 1 tsp of cumin powder
 - 1 tsp of ginger garlic paste
 - 2 table spoon of oil (make it 3 table spoon if you do not have
   non-stick cookware)
 - 2 small tomatoes, chopped finely
 - 1 small onion, chopped finely
 - optional, 1 spring onion, chopped
 - optional, some cilantro leaves, chopped

Wash the daal in water 2 times. Put the yellow daal, water, turmeric,
salt and red chilli powder in a pressure cooker.  Put the cooker on
the stove till you hear 3 whistles from the cooker.  Remove the cooker
from the stove and let the pressure release on its own. 
 
While the daal is being cooked in the cooker, put the oil in a frying
pan and put it on stove on medium heat.  When the oil is warm (it
should be just smoking), add the ginger garlic paste to it.  Keep
moving the paste around so that it does not stick to the frying pan
and it does not get burnt.  After around 15 seconds, add the finely
chopped onion to the frying pan.  Keep the stove on medium heat and
constantly keep stirring the mixture.  When the onions have turned
brown, add the tomatoes to the pan.  Keep stirring while you keep the
heat on medium for another minute.  

In a small saucer, put the garam masala powder, cumin powder and a few
teaspoons of water and mix them well.  Add this mixture to the frying
pan.  Mixing the masala powder separately in a saucer makes it easier
when we add them to the frying pan.  Keep frying on medium heat this
till the tomato and the onion separate out.  This should happen in 2-3
minutes.  Remove the frying pan from the heat.

By this time, the cooker would have released its pressure.  Remove the
lid and taste a bit of the daal to see if there is enough salt and if
the daal is cooked well enough.  With a ladle, mush the daal into a
puree.  Add the tomato, onion and spice mixture (that you have in the
frying pan) into the daal and stir it well.

Add the spring onion and cilantro leaves on the top for more taste and
smell.
